hey big hello from raleigh north
carolina welcome to another episode of
b2b marketing and more with pam yay
today i actually have a very very good
friend joining me
robert rose chief strategist of a
content marketing institute
and i have known robert for at least i
would say
10 years maybe yeah it's been the better
part of a decade for sure yeah exactly
so welcome to my show and i have waited
so long to actually have you i'm so
excited to be here i mean i've no i'm
you know long time listener first time
guest i'm i'm
super happy to be here thank you today
we are going to talk about our favorite
topic which is buyers the b2b buyers
and obviously in the past several years
uh especially that um there's a term
called empowered buyers
especially the b2b buyers and they have
all the information at their fingertips
aka google search
so the knowledge is power so they are
armed with so much knowledge on hand
and many of them are very very good at
consuming doing research on high quality
content pieces to make sure that they
have enough knowledge
to
source the right technology does that
mean they are totally in control
and they are incredibly knowledgeable
about the technology and the platforms
they need to buy what is your thought on
that our business isn't the only one
doing content marketing competitors are
doing it everybody's doing it in some
cases and what has come to pass is that
in many ways businesses have this belief
that there's this asymmetric
relationship between them and buyers and
buyers are showing up on their door and
that's true right you know the stats
that we see from forester or gartner or
the you know other research firms that
say
seventy percent of the buyer's journeys
done before a sales person gets a call
and people don't like cold calling and
all that stuff right it's all true
but the question underneath it is what's
important which is why
and
the key there is there's research
actually to show this which is buyers
aren't feeling terribly empowered these
days and the question is because
we have to remember that the selling and
marketing process is not the only one
that changed the buying process changed
as well
and in many cases those buyers they're
not doing this because they love it
you know it's like asking me to go buy
you know a new something for my car
engine right i hate cars i don't want to
get into a car but i'm going to go
research it and learn about it so that i
can actually buy the best one in many
cases for b2b that's the exact same
thing as one cmo told me one time he
said look
we're going out and buying this
enterprise marketing technology but i
got no interest in learning and becoming
a subject matter expert in this stuff i
just i hate this i don't want to do it
but i have to do it because my boss the
ceo
wants us to put this committee together
so that we buy the best purchased you
know product that we possibly can
and so many times what happens is that
our buyers are showing up and all we're
doing is pouring more research
on them and basically not adding any
value to their process because they're
just like trying to check a box that
they did all this research and it's you
know it's the equivalent of saying we've
got buyers showing up on our doorstep
they and they want to learn how to play
chess
and we continually give them more
research on why chess is such an
important game and they'll have fun
playing it they're like yeah i get it
enough and we just need to be more
helpful we need to be instead of
teaching buyers why to change we need to
be teaching them how they can change
more easily the buyers obviously have
all the knowledge right at their
fingertips they can do any research they
want they can consume any content they
can ever imagine so with that being said
how do we know what they want and how
can we be helpful to them in a way that
they need it
there's that wonderful sort of active
listening idea and and the idea is is
that you know we're waiting to speak
right you know are we really listening
or are we just waiting to speak and most
marketing you know or sales enablement
teams they're pretty much just waiting
to speak it's like yeah yeah i hear what
you're saying but how many licenses do
you really need you know and so
we can listen a lot more in terms of
hearing what the intent is of the buyers
that are showing up right what are they
really looking for when they ask or when
they come in and download a piece of
content i mean how many b2b companies do
you know that treat every single
download of every single piece of
content exactly the same way as soon as
they download boom they assign the score
right you download this piece you get 30
points you download that piece you get
40 points yeah
exactly mql is triggered and all of a
sudden they triggers an email saying how
many licenses or what would you like to
buy today and can i schedule a call with
you and instead if we start listening
for the contextual signals because what
we're putting out with all of our
thought leadership and with all of our
marketing content is are our signals
that can get tripped right and so if we
look and say someone downloaded a white
paper entitled everything i need to
learn about the introduction of my
industry versus how do i implement the
best solution for my need those are two
very different signals and we can start
responding in appropriate ways instead
of treating both of those customers
exactly the same what you are trying to
say is even though they download a
specific piece of content
and you have to do some research to
understand
where they're coming from what else they
do try to identify their intent
or possibly their interests before you
actually determine how you want to
respond to that so that sounds like the
automation
workflow it's not going to work very
very well or you have to use certain
kind of algorithm to kind of
attest or discover what that intent is
is that correct i mean you have to do it
manually or you have to use some sort of
tool to help you out we all have a
tendency to want to over automate things
that don't necessarily need to be
automated but there are ways certainly
to to think about this from a marketing
automation perspective i think the key
thing is
not to just look you said it very well
right it's not just looking at how many
things that they downloaded and
assigning a score or even looking at
exactly what they downloaded and
exciting a score
one of the things that we need to look
at is the context of how those things
happen in other words the order is
important
so if someone comes in and downloads the
paper that i just mentioned that says
how do i implement uh you know x kind of
solution
and then goes and downloads the what do
i need to learn
about this particular industry
well that's two different ideas right
rather than if they came in and did the
reverse
one is i'm learning and then i need to
know how and then the other is maybe i
need to just check off a box and get to
the how but then i'm really confused by
everything and i'm coming back to
learning the why
and so
really understanding the context of what
the customer is doing and what they're
actually asked one of my favorite things
to do and so few b2b companies do it
is instead of gating a piece of content
with your email address why don't you
get a piece of content with just why do
you want this content like just ask just
say what just like let us know just what
what are you looking for i'm just
looking to learn i'm just looking to i'm
trying to get as much research i'm
trying to figure out what's best for me
and do get insight and listen
even if you only did that for one out of
every five visitors just start to get an
insight and listen more than we that are
than simply just waiting to speak i like
the idea even if you gate the content
that you ask a very simple question you
know obviously everybody wants to get
the first name last name and email
address but instead of like you know
fill out all the information
right well they want the email address
right because that's for some reason
we've started to equate that with value
you know
i guess it's probably another thing to
check off the box guess what i got
knowledge yeah exactly
you know so many companies they'll they
they have this
algorithm set up to where somebody
downloads something and the immediate i
mean immediately they trips up an email
to say set up a thing with a cons it
happens to me all the time i go to some
site and i download a white paper oh
yeah same here too i you know honestly
i'm the guilty one i kind of said of
that process myself
like somebody subscribed and i actually
have a three email like over three weeks
the first one you just welcome them and
then share with them some content and
the second one is basically say hey
these are the top five popular you know
most downloaded blog posts and then the
other one is like in it but that's right
that's what you should be doing right
but it's the company that i go to you
know and i'm you know i'm looking at you
gartner you know when i go and i
download something that's available on
gartner and not five seconds later do i
get some sort of sales emails
and if you think about it the minute
that i've downloaded a white paper is
actually the worst time to email me and
actually try and sell sell me something
right it's the worst time because i'm
just i haven't even read the thing that
i've downloaded yet i haven't even
experienced it yet and you're already
banging on my door saying hey can i sell
you something hello i need to talk to
you now
now
if you could pick the worst time to try
and sell somebody something it would be
the 5 or 10 seconds after they've
downloaded this thing you wanted them to
download and it's like but yet we do it
it's the it's the first thing we want to
do yeah in general i kind of want to
wait for a little bit you know like two
or three days down the road like even
when i do a workshop like you know even
for cnw i was in a thank you note but
usually i send that right away you know
24 hours because some people they i just
say hey thank you so much for coming to
my workshop and that's about it
and then i have a call to action if you
need to talk to me feel free
and that's the end of the conversation
and i don't usually do a lot of like you
know pounding like hey talk to me talk
to me talk to me but whenever i get a
chance i always have a call to action
yeah it's complimentary schedule call
with me so yeah but i hear you you don't
want to be like you know right there
that minute you know so
well now we are looking ahead which is
the endemic and which is the post
pandemic
based on what you have seen and also
some of the research that's been uh
conducted by content marketing institute
what should marketers do differently now
you know it's kind of like completely
different era
you know there are a couple of things um
i think that have been accelerated
from the from the pandemic and
you know the first as we were just
talking about is the the need for
different kinds of of content you know
one of the things that
there's a statistic that i read i was a
few but maybe a month or two ago
that talked about how
companies b2b organizations really
pivoted and started doing much more of
their sales enablement online you know
and in live video versus you know
getting on a plane and showing up and
doing powerpoint presentations at the
foot of the table or taking their
customers to golf or you know whatever
it is
and
what the report said was basically that
companies have really found success with
that they've really you know they've
really found that it's better in many
ways and so i think that's one of the
things that's changed post pandemic that
will sort of continue to be there which
is a real press
on the need to create digital
experiences that are video based that
are sales enablement oriented
and so i think there's a real
opportunity for marketers and sales
people to really work together to start
to create these very interesting
engaging and thoughtful video
experiences that are really sales
enablement practices over and over and
over again
and i think a lot of that has to do with
the real move here to create so much
more digital content in a world where
you know the physical
aspects of this our attendance at
conferences and our attendance at you
know being able to see people in
restaurants and being able to go and fly
there and do all those things right now
is really limited and so
this move for a more direct to customer
digital experience is such an important
part of of this
and so that means that content marketers
the thought leadership the resources all
of those kinds of things are starting to
merge a lot with other elements of
content that are more sales oriented and
so i think that expansion and that
importance of that as a strategy is
probably the biggest thing to come out
for content out of the pandemic
yeah i agree with you and i used a
slightly different term
and when i was speaking actually at
private events and they asked me a
specific trends that they need to pay
attention to especially looking ahead
for next two or three years i say
something similar but use a slightly
different term it's the increased
digital touch points it's basically they
are more in the past you can take care
of that through any kind of physical
interaction
but
that is not just replace but also this
increased number of digital touch points
that you have to add as a part of the
the purchase journey it's a great point
you know it's very interesting about
salespeople when you put a salesperson
in front of a prospect they are charming
they know what to say they know how to
do it but if you put the sales person in
front of a camera they kind of freeze
such a great point yeah one thing i feel
that the sales professional that needs
to
possess in the future
is the ability to look at a green dot
like green dot that digital camera and
still feel incredibly comfortable and
talking just like you are talking to
prospects do you know there is a tool
called loom l-o-o-m
i've heard of it yes it's a sass-based
platform that you can download to your
laptop and you can click on loom and
then you can do recording kind of like
this you can say hey hey this is pm it's
so good talking to you blah blah blah
and then you can hit done and then you
can do a very quick like trimming and
you can trim the front you can trim the
end and then you can and then once
that's done they give you kind of like a
video link very similar to youtube so
you can just add that link or you can
add that video directly to your email
like a very quick download and it's
readily available and if you don't want
to add that video into your email you
can just add a video link and that
people can watch it it's wonderful and
it's also very very good at doing the
live demo like for example i said hey
robert you know what i know you're
interested about this let me show you
how to do it and then you kind of do it
and recording yourself it was actually a
wonderful tool
i've seen a couple of it yeah it's it's
great for email yeah i 100 understand
and uh and i do encourage a lot of sales
professionals i say you know what
you look gorgeous you know you are so
now you just get yourself comfortable in
front of camera okay then you are
perfect all right
am i crazy
yes but we knew that already
all right so this is wonderful and i
actually have one last question so what
show are you binge watching right now
so it's hard to binge watch anymore
because they're all dropping like once a
week now instead of like you know
dropping the whole season at a time i
know that really just annoys the heck
out of me
the last binge watch um where we watched
like two seasons worth of shows uh in
like two weeks um was yellowstone i just
finished uh all whatever four seasons of
that's so great yeah
oh my god
i is it is it by kevin costner yeah i
think that show is excellent you know
what robert is so good talking to you
and i'm so happy that you finally came
to my show and we talked about what
empower buyers
how to be helpful to them and also we
talk about some of the digital touch
points that is going to probably
continue to increase post pandemic and
how to use video as a means to actually
engage with your prospects
very very good so happy to see you
robert great to see you take care
bye
[Music]
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]